[Docs] Migration Guide of Datasets (#1325)
open-mmlab/mmocr: docs/en/migration/dataset.md

```text
img1.jpg OpenMMLab
img2.jpg MMOCR
```

The JSON Line format uses a dictionary-like structure to represent the annotations, where the keys `filename` and `text` store the image name and word label, respectively.

```json
{"filename": "img1.jpg", "text": "OpenMMLab"}
{"filename": "img2.jpg", "text": "MMOCR"}
```

## New Dataset Format

To solve the dataset issues, MMOCR 1.x adopts a unified dataset design introduced in MMEngine. Each annotation file is a `.json` file that stores a `dict`, containing both `metainfo` and `data_list`, where the former includes basic information about the dataset and the latter consists of the label item of each target instance.

```json
{
  "metainfo":
    {
      "classes": ("cat", "dog"),
      ...
    },
  "data_list":
    [
      {
        "img_path": "xxx/xxx_0.jpg",
        "img_label": 0,
        ...
      },
      ...
    ]
}
```

Based on the above structure, we introduced `TextDetDataset`, `TextRecogDataset` for MMOCR-specific tasks.

### Text Detection

> 1. **Introduction of the New Format**

Reviewer: Consider using headings (####)

```bash
python tools/dataset_converters/textrecog/data_migrator.py ${IN_PATH} ${OUT_PATH} --format ${txt, jsonl, lmdb}
```

| ARGS     | Type                   | Description                                       |
| -------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| in_path  | str                    | （Required）Path to the old annotation file.      |
| out_path | str                    | （Required）Path to the new annotation file.      |
| --format | 'txt', 'jsonl', 'lmdb' | Specify the format of the old dataset annotation. |

## Compatibility

In consideration of the cost to users for data migration, we have temporarily made MMOCR version 1.x compatible with the old MMOCR 0.x format.

```{note}
The code and components used for compatibility with the old data format may be completely removed in a future release. Therefore, we strongly recommend that users migrate their datasets to the new data format.
```

Specifically, we provide three dataset classes [IcdarDataset](mmocr.datasets.IcdarDataset), [RecogTextDataset](mmocr.datasets.RecogTextDataset), [RecogLMDBDataset](mmocr.datasets.RecogLMDBDataset) to support the old formats.

> 1. [IcdarDataset](mmocr.datasets.IcdarDataset) supports the COCO-like format annotations for text detection. The users just need to add a new dataset config to `configs/textdet/_base_/datasets` and specify its dataset type as `IcdarDataset`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [IcdarDataset](mmocr.datasets.IcdarDataset) supports COCO-like format annotations for text detection. You just need to add a new dataset config to `configs/textdet/_base_/datasets` and specify its dataset type as `IcdarDataset`.
```

   ```python
   data_root = 'data/det/icdar2015'
   train_anno_path = 'instances_training.json'

   train_dataset = dict(
       type='IcdarDataset',
       data_root=data_root,
       ann_file=train_anno_path,
       data_prefix=dict(img_path='imgs/'),
       filter_cfg=dict(filter_empty_gt=True, min_size=32),
       pipeline=None)
   ```

> 2. [RecogTextDataset](mmocr.datasets.RecogTextDataset) supports `.txt` and `.jsonl` format annotations for text recognition. The users just need to add a new dataset config to `configs/textrecog/_base_/datasets` and specify its dataset type as `RecogTextDataset`. For example, the following example shows how to configure and load the 0.x format labels `old_label.txt` and `old_label.jsonl` from the toy dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [RecogTextDataset](mmocr.datasets.RecogTextDataset) supports `.txt` and `.jsonl` format annotations for text recognition. You just need to add a new dataset config to `configs/textrecog/_base_/datasets` and specify its dataset type as `RecogTextDataset`. For example, the following example shows how to configure and load the 0.x format labels `old_label.txt` and `old_label.jsonl` from the toy dataset.
```

   ```python
    data_root = 'tests/data/rec_toy_dataset/'

    # loading 0.x txt format annos
    txt_dataset = dict(
        type='RecogTextDataset',
        data_root=data_root,
        ann_file='old_label.txt',
        data_prefix=dict(img_path='imgs'),
        parser_cfg=dict(
            type='LineStrParser',
            keys=['filename', 'text'],
            keys_idx=[0, 1]),
        pipeline=[])

    # loading 0.x json line format annos
    jsonl_dataset = dict(
        type='RecogTextDataset',
        data_root=data_root,
        ann_file='old_label.jsonl',
        data_prefix=dict(img_path='imgs'),
        parser_cfg=dict(
            type='LineJsonParser',
            keys=['filename', 'text'],
        pipeline=[])
   ```

> 3. [RecogLMDBDataset](mmocr.datasets.RecogLMDBDataset) supports LMDB format annotations for text recognition. The users just need to add a new dataset config to `configs/textrecog/_base_/datasets` and specify its dataset type as `RecogLMDBDataset`. For example, the following example shows how to configure and load the **label-only lmdb** `label.lmdb` from the toy dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. [RecogLMDBDataset](mmocr.datasets.RecogLMDBDataset) supports LMDB format annotations for text recognition. You just need to add a new dataset config to `configs/textrecog/_base_/datasets` and specify its dataset type as `RecogLMDBDataset`. For example, the following example shows how to configure and load the **label-only lmdb** `label.lmdb` from the toy dataset.
```

   ```python
    data_root = 'tests/data/rec_toy_dataset/'

    lmdb_dataset = dict(
        type='RecogLMDBDataset',
        data_root=toy_data_root,
        ann_file='label.lmdb',
        data_prefix=dict(img_path='imgs'),
        pipeline=[])
   ```

   When the `lmdb` file contains **both labels and images**, in addition to setting the dataset type to `RecogLMDBDataset` as in the above example, we also need to configure the file backend in `file_client_args` to `lmdb` in the data pipelines and specify `db_path` as the path to the `lmdb` annotation file as in the following example.

   ```python
    # Set the file backend to lmdb and specify the db_path
    file_client_args = dict(backend='lmdb', db_path='tests/data/rec_toy_dataset/imgs.lmdb')

>    ```

Reviewer: Use [`LoadImageFromLMDB`](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmocr/blob/e760dcd1dd89d6c136db2bec8c56bab00109d201/mmocr/datasets/transforms/loading.py#L445)
